[IMP] Productivity: Discuss Getting Started (#4645)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/discuss/overview/get_started.rst

chat. Share information, projects, files, prioritize tasks, and stay connected with colleagues and
partners throughout applications. Forge better relationships, increase productivity and transparency
by promoting a convenient way of communicating.

.. _discuss_app/notification_preferences:

Choose notifications preference
===============================

Access your *preferences* by navigating to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users --> User -->
Preferences tab`. Then choose either :guilabel:`Handle by Emails` or :guilabel:`Handle in Odoo` for
how the user's notifications should be handled.

.. image:: get_started/preferences-user.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the preferences page for Odoo Discuss

By default, the field is set as :guilabel:`Handle by Emails`. Every time a message is sent; or a
note is sent where there is an '@' mention; or when a notification is sent on a record that the
user's follows, a email message will be sent via the email function in Odoo.

By choosing :guilabel:`Handle in Odoo`, the above notifications are shown in the *Dicuss* app's
:guilabel:`Inbox`. Messages can then be :guilabel:`Marked as Todo`, :guilabel:`Replied`,

> :guilabel:`Marked as Read` or responded with an :guilabel:`emoji`.

Author: Noted; I've changed all gui labels to represent the label on screen.

.. image:: get_started/reactions-discuss.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of an inbox message and its action options in Odoo Discuss

> The messages tagged as :guilabel:`Mark as Todo` are also shown in :guilabel:`Starred`, while the
> ones :guilabel:`Marked as Read` are moved to :guilabel:`History`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking :guilabel:`Mark as Todo` on a message causes it to appear 
on the :guilabel:`Starred` page, while clicking :guilabel:`Mark as Read` moves the message to :guilabel:`History`.
```

.. image:: get_started/starred_messages.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of messages marked as todo in Odoo Discuss

Start chatting
==============

The first time a user logs in their account, OdooBot sends a message asking for permission to
receive desktop notifications to chats. If accepted, the user will receive push notifications for
the messages they receive despite where the user is in Odoo.

.. image:: get_started/odoobot_push.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the messages under the messaging menu emphasizing the request for push
         notifications for Odoo Discuss

.. tip::
   To stop receiving desktop notifications, reset the notifications settings of the browser.

> To start a chat go to *Discuss* app and click on the :guilabel:`+` icon next to :guilabel:`Direct

Reviewer: We're telling the user to select the Discuss app, so it should have a menuselection tag.
```suggestion
To start a chat, go to the :menuselection:`Discuss` app and click on the :guilabel:`+` icon next to :guilabel:`Direct
```

========================
Get started with Discuss
========================

The *Discuss* app allows a company to bring all of their communication together through messages,
notes, and chat. Users are able to share information, projects, and files. Prioritize tasks and stay
connected with colleagues and partners across applications. Forge better relationships and increase
productivity and transparency by promoting a convenient way of communicating.

.. _discuss_app/notification_preferences:

Choose notifications preference
===============================

Access *preferences* by navigating to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users --> User -->
Preferences tab`. Then choose either :guilabel:`Handle by Emails` or :guilabel:`Handle in Odoo` for
how the user's notifications should be handled.

.. image:: get_started/preferences-user.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the preferences page for Odoo Discuss

By default, the field is set as :guilabel:`Handle by Emails`. With this setting enabled, a
notification email will be sent by Odoo every time a message is sent, a note is sent with an '@'

> mention, or a notification is sent for a record that the user follows.

Author: Nice catch, thanks for suggesting!

:guilabel:`Inbox`. Messages can have the following actions taken on them: respond with an emoji by
clicking :guilabel:`Add a Reaction`, or reply to the message by clicking on :guilabel:`Reply`.
Additional actions may include starring the message by clicking :guilabel:`Marked as Todo`, or
pinning the message by selecting :guilabel:`Pin` or even mark the message as unread by selecting
:guilabel:`Marked as unread`.

.. image:: get_started/reactions-discuss.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of an inbox message and its action options in Odoo Discuss

Clicking :guilabel:`Mark as Todo` on a message causes it to appear on the :guilabel:`Starred` page,
while clicking :guilabel:`Mark as Read` moves the message to :guilabel:`History`.

.. image:: get_started/starred_messages.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of messages marked as todo in Odoo Discuss

Start chatting
==============

The first time a user logs in to their account, OdooBot sends a message asking for permission to
send desktop notifications for chats. If accepted, the user will receive push notifications on their
desktop for the messages they receive, regardless of where the user is in Odoo.

> .. image:: get_started/odoobot_push.png

Reviewer 2: This image is too wide at 944px, can you please resize it to be 768px wide (933px max), also the image filename contains an underscore, please change it to hyphens

   :align: center
   :alt: View of the messages under the messaging menu emphasizing the request for push
         notifications for Odoo Discuss

.. tip::
   To stop receiving desktop notifications, reset the notifications settings of the browser.

> To start a chat, go to the :menuselection:`Discuss` app and click on the :guilabel:`+` icon next to
> :guilabel:`Direct Messages` or :guilabel:`Channels` in the left menu of the dashboard.

Reviewer 2: Icon formatting– add the identifier in parenthesis please :)
```suggestion
To start a chat, go to the :menuselection:`Discuss` app and click on the :guilabel:`+ (plus)` icon
next to :guilabel:`Direct Messages` or :guilabel:`Channels` in the left menu of the dashboard.
```

> .. image:: get_started/channels_direct_messages.png

Reviewer 2: underscores in filename here too, please update to hyphens :)

   :align: center
   :height: 400
   :alt: View of Discuss’s panel emphasizing the titles channels and direct messages in Odoo Discuss

> A company can also easily create :doc:`public and private channels <team_communication>`.

Reviewer 2: please update to use global relative path:
```suggestion
A company can also easily create :doc:`public and private channels
</applications/productivity/discuss/overview/team_communication>`.
```

Mentions in the chat and on the chatter
---------------------------------------

> To mention a user within a chat or the chatter, type *@user-name*; to refer to a channel, type
> *#channel-name*. The user mentioned will be notified in their *Inbox* or through an email, depending
> on their communication settings.

Reviewer 2: User input should use literal formatting not italics, and _inbox_ should be lowercase since the text is not in a guilabel
```suggestion
To mention a user within a chat or the chatter, type `@user-name`; to refer to a channel, type
`#channel-name`. The user mentioned will be notified in their *inbox* or through an email, depending
on their communication settings.
```

> .. image:: get_started/chat_windows.png

Reviewer 2: Image filename- update to use hyphens please :) and add a period to the alt tag

========================
Get started with Discuss
========================

The *Discuss* app allows a company to bring all of their communication together through messages,
notes, and chat. Users are able to share information, projects, and files. Prioritize tasks and stay
connected with colleagues and partners across applications. Forge better relationships and increase
productivity and transparency by promoting a convenient way of communicating.

.. _discuss_app/notification_preferences:

Choose notifications preference
===============================

Access *preferences* by navigating to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Users --> User -->
Preferences tab`. Then choose either :guilabel:`Handle by Emails` or :guilabel:`Handle in Odoo` for
how the user's notifications should be handled.

.. image:: get_started/preferences-user.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the Preferences tab for Odoo Discuss.

By default, the :guilabel:`Notification` field is set as :guilabel:`Handle by Emails`. With this
setting enabled, a notification email will be sent by Odoo every time a message is sent, a note is

> sent with an '@' mention, or a notification is sent for a record that the user follows.

Reviewer 2: I suppose this would be user input, so its probably best to format it as such
```suggestion
sent with an `@` mention, or a notification is sent for a record that the user follows.
```

Clicking :guilabel:`Mark as Todo` on a message causes it to appear on the :guilabel:`Starred` page,
while clicking :guilabel:`Mark as Read` moves the message to :guilabel:`History`.

.. image:: get_started/starred-messages.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of messages marked as todo in Odoo Discuss.

Start chatting
==============

The first time a user logs in to their account, OdooBot sends a message asking for permission to
send desktop notifications for chats. If accepted, the user will receive push notifications on their
desktop for the messages they receive, regardless of where the user is in Odoo.

.. image:: get_started/odoobot-push.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the messages under the messaging menu emphasizing the request for push
         notifications for Odoo Discuss.

.. tip::
   To stop receiving desktop notifications, reset the notifications settings of the browser.

To start a chat, go to the :menuselection:`Discuss` app and click on the :guilabel:`+ (plus)` icon
next to :guilabel:`Direct Messages` or :guilabel:`Channels` in the left menu of the dashboard.

.. image:: get_started/channels-direct-messages.png
   :align: center
   :height: 400

>    :alt: View of Discuss's panel emphasizing the titles channels and direct messages in Odoo Discuss

Reviewer 2: Add a missing period
```suggestion
   :alt: View of Discuss's panel emphasizing the titles channels and direct messages in Odoo
         Discuss.
```

========================
Get started with Discuss
========================

Odoo *Discuss* is an internal communication app that allows users to connect through messages,
notes, and file sharing, either through a persistent chat window that works across applications, or
through the dedicated *Discuss* dashboard.

.. _discuss_app/notification_preferences:

Choose notifications preference
===============================

Access user-specific preferences for the *Discuss* app by navigating to :menuselection:`Settings app
--> Users --> User --> Preferences tab`.

.. image:: get_started/preferences-user.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the Preferences tab for Odoo Discuss.

By default, the :guilabel:`Notification` field is set as :guilabel:`Handle by Emails`. With this
setting enabled, a notification email will be sent by Odoo every time a message is sent from the
chatter, a note is sent with an `@` mention (from chatter), or a notification is sent for a record

> that the user follows. Something that triggers a notification is changing of the stage (if an
> email is configured to be sent, for example if the task is set to :guilabel:`Done`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
that the user follows. Something that triggers a notification is changing of the stage (if an email
is configured to be sent, for example if the task is set to :guilabel:`Done`).
```

> sent with an `@` mention, or a notification is sent for a record that the user follows.

Reviewer 3: be more specific
what kind of message, what kind of note, what is an example of a record, etc.

for people who know the software we can more or less piece this together but for people who know nothing about it and want to understand the mechanics of these notifications, fully cover the triggers and instances of how and when they fire.

You can also create :doc:`public and private channels <team_communication>`.

Mentions in the chat and on the chatter
---------------------------------------

> To mention a user within a chat or the chatter type *@user-name*; to refer to a channel, type

Reviewer: Add comma
```suggestion
To mention a user within a chat or the chatter, type *@user-name*; to refer to a channel, type
```

> *#channel-name*. A notification is sent to the user mentioned either to the *Inbox* or through an
> email, depending on the settings.

Reviewer: Rewrite
```suggestion
*#channel-name*. The user mentioned will be notified in their *Inbox* or through an email, depending on their communication settings.
```

   task’s followers, and secondly on *Employees*. If the record being searched does not match with
   either a follower or employee, the scope of the search becomes all partners.

User status
-----------

It is helpful to see what colleagues are up to and how quickly they can respond to messages by

> checking their *status*. The status is shown on the left side of a contact’s names on Discuss’

Reviewer: ```suggestion
checking their *status*. The status is shown on the left side of a contact’s name on the Discuss
```

>    task’s followers, and secondly on *Employees*. If the record being searched does not match with
>    either a follower or employee, the scope of the search becomes all partners.

Reviewer 2: Apostrophe fix and no need for italics on employees
```suggestion
   task's followers, and secondly on employees. If the record being searched does not match with
   either a follower or employee, the scope of the search becomes all partners.
```

User status
-----------

It is helpful to see what colleagues are up to and how quickly they can respond to messages by

> checking their *status*. The status is shown on the left side of a contact’s name on the *Discuss*
> sidebar, on the *Messaging menu* and when listed in the *chatter*.

Reviewer 2: Apostrophe fix, can use guilabel on Discuss since it is displayed on the UI in this instruction, lowercase messaging menu
```suggestion
checking their *status*. The status is shown on the left side of a contact's name on the
:guilabel:`Discuss` sidebar, on the *messaging menu* and when listed in the *chatter*.
```

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`team_communication`

>    - :doc:`plan_activities`

Reviewer 2: ```
   - :doc:`/applications/productivity/discuss/overview/team_communication`
   - :doc:`/applications/productivity/discuss/overview/plan_activities`
```
